---
output:
  pdf_document: default
  html_document: default
  word_document: default
---
# Laboratory Notebook for a user pointing experiment

## Project overview

Fitts described 1954 the relationship between the distance to a target, its width, and the time needed to acquire it [[Fitts, 1954](http://www2.psychology.uiowa.edu/faculty/mordkoff/InfoProc/pdfs/Fitts%201954.pdf)]. 
To aquire a target, e.g., to move the mouse cursor and click on a file to select it, Fitts' law describes how the distance between the start point and the target (_A_: amplitude of the movement), and the size of the target (_W_: width of the target) impacts the index of difficulty of the task (_ID_) [[MacKenzie and Buxton, 1992](http://www.billbuxton.com/fitts92.html)]:

> _ID_ = log2(_A_/_W_ + 1)

The time (_MT_: movement time) needed for a user to acquire a target is linearly correlated to _ID_:

> _MT_ = a + b × _ID_

A large part of Human-Computer Interaction research since then builds on top of Fitts' law.

This project aims at finding the values of the _a_ and _b_ parameters. This document contains my attempts to experimentally find _a_ and _b_ parameters.

## General Organization

### data

The data is generated by me when I was using the software , and give me this:


Data Raw, i.e. the raw data  as returned from the experimental software.

Data Mean, i.e. the processed mean movement times as returned from the experimental software.

### pointingAnalyize_FittsLaw_experiment/
This folder contains my R markdown script used to analyze the data collected from the experiment.


## Experimental Reports

### 2024-02-03

#### Experimental task

I used the implementation of a [pointing experiment from Ergonomics Web at Cornell University](http://ergo.human.cornell.edu/FittsLaw/FittsLaw.html). 
On this Webpage, one can gather data for controlled 1D user pointing experiments. 
1. In the first text field, the experimenter enters the _widths_ of the targets, seperated with ','. 
2. In the second text field, the experimenter enters the _distance_ between targets, also called "_amplitude_", seperated with ','. 
3. In the last text field, the experiment enters the number of trial s·he wants to collect for each combination of _widths_ and _distances_. 

#### Experimental variables

##### First Experiment:
I ran the experiment from the above Webpage with 16,32,and 64 widths and with 128,256,512 amplitudes, with 10 trials for each combination. 

Circumstance:
using Dell XPS , during night , mouse , right hand , half tired.

##### Second Experiment:
I ran the experiment from the above Webpage with 6,3,and 4 widths and with 12,25,52 amplitudes, with 10 trials for each combination. 

Circumstances:
using Dell XPS , during night , mouse , right hand , 70% tired, I didn't like the game.

#### Data collected

The Webpage returned the following results:

##### First Experiment:
- I performed 0 pointing errors
- A Fitts modelling in the form of MT = 426.246 + 148.856log(A/W + 1) with RSquare = 0.869
- The [table of mean _MT_](./Data_first_experiment_128_16/Data_Mean_128_16_first.xlsx) that I provide in the [data folder](./Data_first_experiment_128_16/)
- The [table of raw pointing data](./Data_first_experiment_128_16/Data_128_16_first.xlsx) that I provide in [data folder](./Data_first_experiment_128_16/)


##### Second Experiment:
- I performed 77 pointing errors
- A Fitts modelling in the form of MT = 184.338 + 143.258log(A/W + 1) with RSquare =0.640
- The [table of mean _MT_](./Data_second_experiment_12_6/Data_Mean_12_6_second.xlsx) that I provide in the [data folder](./Data_second_experiment_12_6/)
- The [table of raw pointing data](.Data_second_experiment_12_6/Data_12_6_second.xlsx) that I provide in [data folder](.Data_second_experiment_12_6/)


#### Data analysis

My data analysis is performed and commented in the [pointing_experiment_Analyize.Rmd file](./analysis/pointingAnalysis.Rmd) (R markdown file). 

#### Note: see the word file not the pdf it is more sorted.